---
layout: post
title: A Review of the reMarkable
comments: true
---

![A reMarkable](/resources/remarkable-overview.jpg)

The reMarkable is very much an **early adopter technology**. It still
has some rough edges, though **the integration of an electronic pencil
on an e-ink screen works remarkably well**. Like most young
technologies, it's supporting tech, in particular **the system software
and the supporting apps, are not yet there in terms of design,
coherence, and stability**. **Navigating PDFs for non-sequential reading
is arduous**, and I found the pencil-imitating brushes to be more
annoying than useful. If you really need a tablet to review A4-sized
text (approximately) on, and can work around a bit of a hassle, the
reMarkable is probably great for you. Otherwise, I'd **recommend waiting
for more mature**---and less pricey---iterations, whether they are from
reMarkable or not.


## Overall Experience

Overall, my impression is that the interface feels slightly half-baked;
many things (most notably PDF navigation) is hard to reach, it is not
always apparent what the buttons (neither software nor hardware) do,
etc. This is perhaps to be expected, and a number of these shortcomings
were addressed in a recent software upgrade (that by the way downloaded
and installed without hassle for me, showing that at least the upgrade
chain works as expected).

I have also had the entire UI freeze multiple times, most notably in
cold weather, with forced restarts being the only way of getting back to
usability.

The synchronisation apps are awful; perhaps most notably, the way to add
a document to a folder is to select the document, click the move button,
go into the target directory, and press "move here". It is as if drag
and drop was never invented. And worse yet, dragging documents into the
app will upload them in the root directory, rather than (as you would
expect) in the currently viewed directory.

Frankly, I don't really understand why they had to go with their own
app. Preferably, I'd have my reMarkable just connect to a cloud provider
(in my case Dropbox, but they should support all of them), and download
my files off it. Having a separate client application to synchronise
files provide no benefit that I can identify.

Finally, I encountered a weird bug in the PDF export facility of both
the macOS app and the reMarkable email export. I had a document where I
had previously drawn some illustrations. On both exports, there were
erased pencil lines that were not shown on the reMarkable or in the
preview app, much like when one scans a paper with pencil traces in a
normal scanner. That might be going a bit too far in emulating the paper
experience.

## Reviewing Documents and Reading

My primary intended use-case for the reMarkable was reading and
annotating papers and other PDF documents, for which it worked quite
nicely; highlighting and making notes in the margin works as you would
expect, and it has been able to render every PDF I have given it
reasonably. Getting the documents onto the reMarkable is ok (though
organising them is, as I have previously stated, a bit of a hassle). The
support for exporting annotated PDFs works exactly as you would expect:
you get highligter lines where you used the highlighter, and pen-y notes
where you used a pen.

![An annotated PDF document on the reMarkable](/resources/remarkable-pdf-highlight.jpg)

It does read epub books, which is a bit awkward due to the width of the
device, but it works as one would expect. Where it really falls short is
navigating PDFs, though. Page numbers are offset-from-start page
numbers, and not the page numbers you see on the actual pages (as with
some PDF readers). No PDF link works, and there is no way to get a table
of contents, even if one exists in the metadata. There are basically two
options for navigation: tapping on a page in a very spatially
inefficient overview of the PDF contents, or entering a page number
(that is, an offset from the beginning) manually. This is particularly
annoying because the table of content data is there, in machine-readable
form, as are the page numbers. And you can't even use the document's own
table of contents because you can't (as far as I can tell) click the
links on it!

![A reMarkable browsing the pages of a PDF](/resources/remarkable-pdf-browse.jpg)

This is entirely a software problem, though, and I'd expect this to be
fixed in a future release of the system software.

## Note-taking and Drawing

![A note made with the reMarkable](/resources/remarkable-note.jpg)

Note-taking works surprisingly smoothly; the pen feels a lot like using
a pen on paper, and more pages can be continuously added to a notebook
by pressing the right button (as long as the current page is not empty;
a nice detail that keeps you from creating unneccessary empty pages).

![A drawing made with the reMarkable](/resources/remarkable-pdf-draw.jpg)

My only complaint is that the eraser is quite unaccessible. A future
iteration of the hardware should preferably have an eraser on the back
of the pen or similar to facilitate moving between erasing and writing.

